platform section removal and other updates (#124)
ondat/documentation: docs/upgrade/using-rolling-upgrades.md

---
title: "Platform Upgrade"
linkTitle: "Platform Upgrade"
weight: 1
---

## Overview

This guide will demonstrate how to enable protection for your orchestrator's rolling upgrades using the [Upgrade Guard](/docs/concepts/rolling-upgrades/#upgrade-guard) and [Node Manager](/docs/concepts/rolling-upgrades/#node-manager). This feature helps prevent your persistent storage volumes from becoming unhealthy during the rolling downtime of an orchestrator upgrade.

> ⚠️ This feature is currently in tech preview, we only recommend using this feature on your test clusters.

## Prerequisites

> ⚠️ Make sure you have met the requirements of [configuring a Pod Disruption Budget (PDB)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/).

> ⚠️ If your volume does not have any replicas, the rolling upgrades feature will not start on any StorageOS node until you have one or more replicas on all your volumes.

> ⚠️ This feature supports the following platforms: Google Anthos, Google GKE with future support to be expanded to Amazon EKS, Openshift and Rancher.

> > ⚠️ OpenShift requires the internal registry to be available during the upgrade, however Ondat volumes may not be available. Therefore using Ondat for the internal registry is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ Using Ondat for the internal registry is not recommended. OpenShift requires the internal registry to be available during the upgrade but Ondat volumes may become unavailable. 
```

> ⚠️ For Openshift: The PDB feature is only stable in kubernetes v1.21+ and Openshift v4.8+.

## Procedure

### Step 1 - Enable Node Manager & Upgrade Guard

* Add the following lines to the `StorageOSCluster` spec:

 ```yaml
  nodeManagerFeatures:
    upgradeGuard: "true"
 ```

* Alternatively, you can run the following command:

 ```bash
 kubectl get storageoscluster -n storageos storageoscluster -o yaml | sed -e 's|^spec:$|spec:\n  nodeManagerFeatures:\n    upgradeGuard: "true"|' | kubectl apply -f - 
 ```

> * You will see new pods getting created, where one pod per node in a cluster called Node Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You will see new pods getting created, one pod per node in a cluster called Node Manager.
```
